# Combined_MagmaOcean_BasalMagmaOcean_Cycling


NOTE: The magma ocean + deep-water cycling model 'ParameterSpace_COMBINED_MagmaOcean_Cycling.ipynb' (sans basal magma ocean) presented here, and within Moore, Cowan, and Boukaré (2023, MNRAS), has since been updated. Users interested in using the combined magma ocean + deep-water cycling + water loss to space model should instead download the version in the repository "waterevolution_superearths", which includes a README file. This newer version of the model, presented within Moore et al. (2024, ApJ), has been made more user-friendly through the help of two undergraduate students during their senior thesis project. However, interested users wanting to explore the impact of the basal magma ocean --- detailed in Moore, Cowan, and Boukaré (2023, MNRAS) --- should still try the two model notebooks within this repository.

Water evolution model for an Earth-mass planet orbiting an M-dwarf host star, combining an early magma ocean phase (governed by the duration of the runaway greenhouse phase) with plate-tectonics-mediated deep-water cycling following magma ocean solidification. Two models are presented here: one without a basal magma ocean, 'ParameterSpace_COMBINED_MagmaOcean_Cycling.ipynb', and one with a persistent basal magma ocean, 'ParameterSpace_COMBINED_BasalMagmaOceanDegas_Cycling', the latter of which injects water into the overlying solid mantle for its lifetime (see Fig. 1 of Moore, Cowan, and Boukare 2023 for a visualization).

Note that the sans basal magma ocean model, 'ParameterSpace_COMBINED_MagmaOcean_Cycling.ipynb', must be run before the model with a persistent basal magma ocean, 'ParameterSpace_COMBINED_BasalMagmaOceanDegas_Cycling', as the corresponding results are both read-in for use and comparison within the basal magma ocean notebook. 
